What if I told you that you could create
professional videos of yourself that
actually look and sound like you with
your mannerisms wearing almost anything
from multiple angles in almost any
environment?
>> [music]
>> What you just witnessed was Avatar 5,
HeyGen's most advanced avatar model yet.
And [music] I know it's cliché to say,
but this is literally a game-changer for
AI video generation. All the avatar
models were good, but they had their
limits. Sometimes they felt stiff,
sometimes they were lifeless, and
sometimes just a little too close to the
uncanny valley for my liking. If you
wanted a different look or environment,
you usually had to record again. And on
longer clips, consistency could start to
drift. Avatar 5 changes that by learning
how you move, gesture, speak, and
express yourself. So, instead of a
lifeless avatar, you get a digital twin
that feels far more natural and far more
usable. That means better consistency
from the first minute to the last,
stronger lip sync, more accurate facial
expressions, and way more flexibility
than before. And the best part? You no
need a crew, a massive budget, a
wardrobe [music] change, or hours of
footage. A one-time 15-second recording
in whatever you're wearing, wherever you
are, unlocks professional-grade video at
scale. And in this video, I'm going to
show you exactly how to use Avatar 5 in
HeyGen, and the best practices to get
the most realistic results, coming up.
All right, let's start by creating your
avatar clone. Inside of HeyGen in the
left-hand sidebar, click on avatars. And
once you're there, hit create avatar in
the top right-hand corner. You'll be
asked to choose between cloning a real
person or creating a virtual character.
And so, since we're building a digital
twin, click on clone a real person
option. Now, here's where the magic
starts. HeyGen is going to ask you to
record a 15-second video of yourself,
and that's it. 15 seconds, not 15
minutes. You can do this directly from
your webcam right here in the browser,
record via your phone, or upload footage
you've already captured. And here's the
part I really want you to hear. You
don't need a professional studio for
this. To prove it, I'm going to do this
twice. Once with my iPhone right here,
without any professional studio
lighting, just a regular spot against a
blank wall with some natural window
light. And once with a full cinema
camera setup back in the studio. And so,
later in the video, we'll compare both
outputs side by side so you can see
exactly what difference your gear
actually makes. Now, the only real
requirement, make sure your face is
clearly visible and you're in a
reasonably well-lit space. Your
background generally doesn't matter.
HeyGen strictly studies how you move,
your gestures, your expressions, your
mannerisms. That's what it's extracting.
Now, one crucial factor for best
results, be expressive. A flat
nonchalant expression while recording
results in an avatar that looks robotic
and lifeless. But, recording with
genuine energy and expression, that
produces a natural, believable digital
twin that actually feels like you. Now,
once your motion capture is done, HeyGen
will give you the option to record a
voice clone. Now, this is completely
optional, but here's the thing. Your
voice plays a major role in creating a
convincing avatar. To sell the illusion,
this small addition can make all the
difference. HeyGen captures your rhythm,
your tone, your natural verbal habits,
all the things that make your voice
distinctly yours. And at this point,
HeyGen gives you two choices. To use the
audio from the clip you just recorded,
or record a dedicated voice clone, which
I strongly recommend as it gives HeyGen
enough detail to work with and tends to
produce a much stronger result. Hi, I'm
excited you're here. This is your voice
clone preview. Okay, so now that your
avatar's been created, let's talk about
adding some additional looks.
First start by clicking design with AI.
The first thing you need to do is choose
your base look. Think of this as
avatar's identity photo. It's the
foundation the AI references every
single time it generates a new look for
you. Pick something strong. A half-body
or close-up shot works best. Make sure
your face is clearly visible, and
honestly, just pick one where you like
how you look. Once your base look is
locked in, you've got two ways to
generate new looks. Option one, browse
the scene library. They are pre-built
looks with different outfits,
environments, and vibes. One click and
the AI drops your face into that scene.
Option two, write your own prompt. This
is where the real power is. Want to be
in a professional office in a navy
blazer?
Done. On a rooftop at sunset in
streetwear?
Also done. The AI generates a brand new
look of you based on whatever you
describe. You can even prompt a side
profile look, and the avatar will still
maintain consistency from a completely
different angle. And if your generated
look is close, but not quite right, hit
edits to fine-tune it some more. Tweak
the outfit, the background, the
lighting, whatever needs adjusting. And
the end result is you've got an entire
wardrobe of professional-looking
versions of yourself, different outfits,
different environments, all from one
15-second recording. Now, let's take one
of these looks and actually make a
video.
All right, let's make a video. Hover
over any look you want to use and hit
create an AI studio. This drops you into
HeyGen's AI studio. And the first thing
you want to check over here on the
right-hand panel is the motion engine.
Make sure it's set to Avatar 5. Now,
here's where you add your content.
You've got two options for the script.
Option one, if you already have a script
prepared, type or paste your script
directly into the text bar. Option two,
and this one is quite genuinely
impressive, click the AI script
generator. It's powered by OpenAI's
ChatGPT. Give it a topic, a tone, a
target length, and it writes a script
for you right there inside the platform.
Here, I'll type in a quick topic, and
just like that, a full script is ready
to go. Now, here's something new in
Avatar 5 that you didn't have in older
versions. Near the motion engine option,
open up the advanced settings. You'll
see a motion type selector. This lets
you control how your avatar moves. You
can also choose from the variety of
different motions based off of previous
videos that you recorded in your
15-second clips. And there it is, a
fully produced Avatar 5 video. Your
face, your voice, your look, done in
minutes, not hours. YouTube marketing is
a game-changer for businesses. With over
2 billion users, it offers an
unparalleled platform to reach potential
customers. Now, let's cover video agent,
because this isn't just the fastest way
to create content with Avatar 5, it's
also the most powerful.
Head over to video agent in the left
sidebar and select the avatar you
previously created. Also, you should
know that when you have a real human
avatar selected, it automatically uses
Avatar 5. So, no extra steps here are
needed. But, what makes video agent
special is this. You're not just
creating a single clip. You can prompt
HeyGen to create multiple scenes and
automatically combine them into a full,
ready-to-publish video. That's the
script, your avatar, the layout, and the
scenes, all from one prompt. And that's
a complete video from start to finish.
Now, there's a whole strategy behind
writing great prompts for video agent,
and I have a fully dedicated video in
exactly that. So, you can go check that
out. The link will be in the
description. But, here's the short
version if you just want to get a video
out. First, you want to describe your
topic, your audience, and the tone
you're going for. Video agent handles
the script, the avatar, the layout, and
puts together a ready-to-publish video
from a single prompt. It's as close to
hands-free video creation as you can get
right now. And with Avatar 5, the
quality has never been better. In 2026,
the marketing landscape is louder than
ever. But, one platform still stands
above the rest as the most powerful tool
for growing your business, YouTube.
Now, here are three things that will
make a difference between "That's a
pretty good avatar" and "Wait, is that
even AI?" Number one, be ridiculously
expressive when you record your motion
clip. I know it feels weird, but you
should do it anyway. The energy you put
into that 15-second clip is exactly what
your avatar gives back. So, if you have
a flat recording, it will result in a
flat avatar. So, bring the energy.
Number two is to choose a strong base
look photo. Close-up, face clearly
visible, subtle expression, no
accessories. This is the foundation for
every AI-generated look you'll ever
create. Get it right once, and
everything else builds from there. And
lastly, number three, do the standalone
voice clone. Don't skip it. Don't just
use the audio from your motion clip.
Give HeyGen a dedicated voice recording.
It captures the nuances that make your
voice yours. So, two extra minutes,
massive difference. So, how many videos
could you create if you only had to show
up on camera once? Well, that's what
Avatar 5 actually makes possible. One
recording, any look, any environment,
any video on demand. This isn't a future
update. It's a completely different way
to think about content creation. If this
tech is as exciting to you as it is to
me, hit that subscribe button. I've got
more HeyGen tutorials coming that you're
not going to want to miss. And if you're
already testing Avatar 5, drop a comment
below. I want to know what you're
building with it. And that's it for this
video. I'll see you in the next one.